[docs] Write an Expo modules tutorial for interfacing with a 3rd party library (#23298)
expo/expo: docs/pages/modules/third-party-library.mdx

Next, you can open the newly created `expo-radial-chart` directory and start editing the native code.

### Inside an existing application

If you want to use our new module as a view inside the existing project, you can run this command inside your project directory:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-module --local expo-radial-chart']} />

Next, you can open the newly created `modules/expo-radial-chart` directory and start editing the native code.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Run the example project

Now let's run the example project to make sure everything is working. We'll need to start the TypeScript compiler to watch for changes and rebuild the module JavaScript, and separately in another terminal window we'll compile and run the example app.

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npm run build"
  cmd={[
    '# Run this in the root of the project to start the TypeScript compiler',
    '$ npm run build',
  ]}
/>

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="cd example && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '$ cd example',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
  ]}
/>

</Step>

<Step label="3">
## Add native dependencies

> Now we can add the native dependencies to the module by editing the `android/build.gradle` and `ios/ExpoRadialChart.podspec` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, add the native dependencies to the module by editing the **android/build.gradle** and **ios/ExpoRadialChart.podspec** files:
```

- [Filenames as bold text](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#write-in-the-second-person) as per the writing styleguide

```diff android/build.grade
dependencies {
  implementation project(':expo-modules-core')
  implementation "org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-stdlib-jdk7:${getKotlinVersion()}"
+ implementation 'com.github.PhilJay:MPAndroidChart:v3.1.0'
}
```

```diff ios/ExpoRadialChart.podspec
    s.static_framework = true

    s.dependency 'ExpoModulesCore'
+   s.dependency 'Charts', '~> 4.1.0'

    # Swift/Objective-C compatibility

> ```

Reviewer: Can we use `Tab` component here to and each tab can be: Android, iOS?

Author: I don't think I want to use tabs here – it's not really choose your platform, it's more of a tutorial for both platforms

Reviewer: Tabs don't always signify choosing one platform over another. However, I do understand your POV 👍

</Step>

<Step label="4">
## Define an API

> To use our module in the application without mistakes we'll define the types for our props.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the module in the app without mistakes, define the types for the props. This module accepts a list of series &mdash; each with a color and a percentage value.
```

> Our module accepts a list of series, each with a color and a percentage value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

No need to have a separate line and create two sentence fragments. We can use both of them as we're describing "adding props which is the subject here.

```ts src/ExpoRadialChart.types.ts
import { ViewStyle } from 'react-native/types';

export type ChangeEventPayload = {
  value: string;
};

type Series = {
  color: string;
  percentage: number;
};

export type ExpoRadialChartViewProps = {
  style?: ViewStyle;
  data: Series[];
};
```

> Since we won't implement the module on the web in this example, we also need to replace the `src/ExpoRadialChartView.web.tsx` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we won't implement the module on the web in this example, let's replace the **src/ExpoRadialChartView.web.tsx** file:
```

```tsx src/ExpoRadialChartView.web.tsx
import * as React from 'react';

export default function ExpoRadialChartView() {
  return <div>Not implemented</div>;
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="5">
## Implement the module on Android

> We can now implement the native functionality by editing the placeholder files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can implement the native functionality by editing the placeholder files with the following changes:
- Create a `PieChart` instance and set its `layoutParams` to match the parent view. Then, add it to the view hierarchy using the `addView` function.
- Define a `setChartData` function that accepts a list of `Series` objects. You can iterate over the list, create a `PieEntry` for each series and store the colors in a separate list. Then, create a `PieDataSet`, use it to create a `PieData` object, and set it as data on the `PieChart` instance.
```

- I'd suggest describing the changes in the code example as bullet points

> We create a `PieChart` instance and set its layoutParams to match the parent view.
> Then we add it to the view hierarchy using the `addView` function.
> 
> We define a `setChartData` function that accepts a list of `Series` objects.
> We iterate over the list and create a `PieEntry` for each series. We also store the colors in a separate list.
> Then we create a `PieDataSet`, use it to create a `PieData` object and set it as data on the `PieChart` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

import com.github.mikephil.charting.charts.PieChart
import com.github.mikephil.charting.data.PieData
import com.github.mikephil.charting.data.PieDataSet
import com.github.mikephil.charting.data.PieEntry
import expo.modules.kotlin.AppContext
import expo.modules.kotlin.records.Field
import expo.modules.kotlin.records.Record
import expo.modules.kotlin.views.ExpoView

class Series : Record {
  @Field
  val color: String = "#ff0000"

  @Field
  val percentage: Float = 0.0f
}

class ExpoRadialChartView(context: Context, appContext: AppContext) : ExpoView(context, appContext) {
  internal val chartView = PieChart(context).also {
    it.layoutParams = LayoutParams(LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT, LayoutParams.MATCH_PARENT)
    addView(it)
  }

  fun setChartData(data: ArrayList<Series>) {
    val entries: ArrayList<PieEntry> = ArrayList()
    val colors: ArrayList<Int> = ArrayList()
    for (series in data) {
      entries.add(PieEntry(series.percentage))
      colors.add(Color.parseColor(series.color))
    }
    val dataSet = PieDataSet(entries, "DataSet");
    dataSet.colors = colors;
    val pieData = PieData(dataSet);
    chartView.data = pieData;
    chartView.invalidate();

  }
}
```

> We also need to use the [`Prop`](/modules/module-api/#prop) function to define the `data` prop and call the native `setChartData` function when the prop changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to use the [`Prop`](/modules/module-api/#prop) function to define the `data` prop and call the native `setChartData` function when the prop changes:
```

```kotlin android/src/main/java/expo/modules/radialchart/ExpoRadialChartModule.kt
package expo.modules.radialchart

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition

class ExpoRadialChartModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoRadialChart")

    View(ExpoRadialChartView::class) {
      Prop("data") { view: ExpoRadialChartView, prop: ArrayList<Series> ->
        view.setChartData(prop);
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="6">
## Implement the module on iOS

> We create a new `PieChartView` instance and use the `addSubview` function to add it to the view hierarchy.
> 
> We need to set the `clipsToBounds` property and override the `layoutSubviews` function to make sure the chart view is always the same size as the parent view.
> 
> Finally, we create a `setChartData` function that accepts a list of series, creates a `PieChartDataSet` instance with the data and assigns it to the `data` property of the `PieChartView` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can implement the native functionality by editing the placeholder files with the following changes:
- Create a new `PieChartView` instance and use the `addSubview` function to add it to the view hierarchy.
- Set the `clipsToBounds` property and override the `layoutSubviews` function to make sure the chart view is always the same size as the parent view.
- Finally, create a `setChartData` function that accepts a list of series, creates a `PieChartDataSet` instance with the data, and assigns it to the `data` property of the `PieChartView` instance.
```

Same content strategy as Android section.

```swift ios/ExpoRadialChartView.swift
import ExpoModulesCore
import Charts

struct Series: Record {
  @Field
  var color: UIColor = UIColor.black

  @Field
  var percentage: Double = 0
}

class ExpoRadialChartView: ExpoView {
  let chartView = PieChartView()

  required init(appContext: AppContext? = nil) {
    super.init(appContext: appContext)
    clipsToBounds = true
    addSubview(chartView)
  }

  override func layoutSubviews() {
    chartView.frame = bounds
  }

  func setChartData(data: [Series]) {
    let set1 = PieChartDataSet(entries: data.map({ (series: Series) -> PieChartDataEntry in
      return PieChartDataEntry(value: series.percentage)
    }))
    set1.colors = data.map({ (series: Series) -> UIColor in
      return series.color
    })
    let chartData: PieChartData = [set1]
    chartView.data = chartData
  }
}
```

> We also need to use the [`Prop`](/modules/module-api/#prop) function to define the `data` prop and call the native `setChartData` function when the prop changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to use the [`Prop`](/modules/module-api/#prop) function to define the `data` prop and call the native `setChartData` function when the prop changes:
```

```swift ios/ExpoRadialChartModule.swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class ExpoRadialChartModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    Name("ExpoRadialChart")

    View(ExpoRadialChartView.self) {
      Prop("data") { (view: ExpoRadialChartView, prop: [Series]) in
        view.setChartData(data: prop)
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="7">

> ## Write an example application to use our module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Write an example app to use the module
```

> Now we can update the app inside the `example` directory to to test our module. We'll use the `ExpoRadialChartView` component to render a pie chart with three slices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can update the app inside the **example** directory to test the module. Use the `ExpoRadialChartView` component to render a pie chart with three slices:
```

```tsx example/App.tsx
import { ExpoRadialChartView } from 'expo-radial-chart';
import { StyleSheet } from 'react-native';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <ExpoRadialChartView
      style={styles.container}
      data={[
        {
          color: '#ff0000',
          percentage: 0.5,
        },
        {
          color: '#00ff00',
          percentage: 0.2,
        },
        {
          color: '#0000ff',
          percentage: 0.3,
        },
      ]}
    />
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
  },
});
```

> > **Tip**: If you created the module inside an existing application, make sure to import it directly from your `modules` directory. It's easiest to use a relative import. `import { ExpoRadialChartView } from '../modules/expo-radial-chart';`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Tip**: If you created the module inside an existing application, make sure to import it directly from your **modules** directory by using a relative import: `import { ExpoRadialChartView } from '../modules/expo-radial-chart';`
```

</Step>

<Step label="8">
## Rebuild and launch your application

> Rerun the build commands from step 2 and make sure your application builds successfully on both platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make sure your app builds successfully on both platforms, rerun the build commands from step 2. After the app is successfully built on any of the platform you'll see a pie chart with three slices:
```

> You should see a pie chart with three slices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![A PieChart module on iOS and Android](/static/images/modules/third-party-library/result.webp)

Reviewer: Use <ImageSpotlight/> component here.

> Congratulations, you have created your first simple wrapper around two separate native libraries using Expo Modules! Learn more about the API in the [Expo Module API reference](/modules/module-api/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</Step>

## Next steps

Congratulations! You've created your first simple wrapper around two separate third-party native libraries using Expo Modules!
```

Let's use two Box link component here to refer the below links:
- Learn more about the API in the [Expo Module API reference](/modules/module-api/).
- creating a native module" tutorial](/modules/native-module-tutorial/)

You can use the same description in those components as did to describe them here.

> 
> if you enjoyed this tutorial and haven't done the native module tutorial, go to the ["creating a native module" tutorial](/modules/native-module-tutorial/) next.
> 
> </Step>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  return (
    <ExpoRadialChartView
      style={styles.container}
      data={[
        {
          color: '#ff0000',
          percentage: 0.5,
        },
        {
          color: '#00ff00',
          percentage: 0.2,
        },
        {
          color: '#0000ff',
          percentage: 0.3,
        },
      ]}
    />
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
  },
});
```

> **Tip**: If you created the module inside an existing application, make sure to import it directly from your **modules** directory by using a relative import: `import { ExpoRadialChartView } from '../modules/expo-radial-chart';`

</Step>

<Step label="8">
## Rebuild and launch your application

To make sure your app builds successfully on both platforms, rerun the build commands from step 2. After the app is successfully built on any of the platform you'll see a pie chart with three slices:

<ImageSpotlight
  src="/static/images/modules/third-party-library/result.webp"
  alt="A PieChart module on iOS and Android"
/>

</Step>

## Next steps

Congratulations! You've created your first simple wrapper around two separate third-party native libraries using Expo Modules!

> 
> {/* Congratulations, you have created your first simple wrapper around two separate native libraries using Expo Modules! Learn more about the API in the [Expo Module API reference](/modules/module-api/). */}
> 
> {/* if you enjoyed this tutorial and haven't done the native module tutorial, go to the ["creating a native module" tutorial](/modules/native-module-tutorial/) next. */}

Reviewer 2: I guess these comments can be removed now
```suggestion
```
